Feature/mpdo 1015 (#51)
oracle-samples/oracle-functions-samples: samples/oci-apigw-idcs-auth-basic/README.md

# API Gateway Basicauth function using IDCS

This function provides verification of username and password against IDCS at runtime and allows only authorized users to access API gateway deployment.

> The implementation conforms to the guidelines in the OCI Documentation at https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/APIGateway/Tasks/apigatewayusingauthorizerfunction.htm.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The implementation conforms to the [documented guidlines for using authorizer functions to add Authentication and authorization to API deployments](https://docs.cloud.oracle.com/en-us/iaas/Content/APIGateway/Tasks/apigatewayusingauthorizerfunction.htm).
```

As you make your way through this tutorial, look out for this icon ![user input icon](./images/userinput.png).
Whenever you see it, it's time for you to perform an action.

## Prerequisites

[Create users in IDCS](https://docs.oracle.com/en/cloud/paas/identity-cloud/uaids/create-user-accounts.html)

> Before you deploy this sample function, make sure you have run step A, B and C of the [Oracle Functions Quick Start Guide for Cloud Shell](https://www.oracle.com/webfolder/technetwork/tutorials/infographics/oci_functions_cloudshell_quickview/functions_quickview_top/functions_quickview/index.html)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you deploy this sample function, you need to complete steps A, B and C of the [Oracle Functions Quick Start Guide for Cloud Shell](https://www.oracle.com/webfolder/technetwork/tutorials/infographics/oci_functions_cloudshell_quickview/functions_quickview_top/functions_quickview/index.html)
```

- A - Set up your tenancy
- B - Create application
- C - Set up your Cloud Shell dev environment

## List Applications

Assuming your have successfully completed the prerequisites, you should see your
application in the list of applications.

```
fn ls apps
```

## Deploy a function that implements an API

We need another function that will be a target for API Gateway. We suggest [oci-display-httprequest-info-python](../oci-display-httprequest-info-python).

> In Cloud Shell, run the _fn deploy_ command to build the function and its dependencies as a Docker image,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Cloud Shell, run `fn deploy` to build the function and its dependencies as a container image,
```

> push the image to OCIR, and deploy the function to Oracle Functions in your application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
push the image to Oracle Cloud Infrastructure Registry (OCIR), and deploy the function to Oracle Functions in your application.
```

For Primary Audience, enter anything "display-httprequest-info" for example.
For Scopes, click _Add_. In the dialog box, for field "Scope", enter anything "display-httprequest-info" for example, click _Add_.

![IDCS-appcreate3](./images/IDCS-appcreate3.png)

Click _Next_.

![IDCS-appcreate4](./images/IDCS-appcreate4.png)

Click _Finish_.

![IDCS-appcreate5](./images/IDCS-appcreate5.png)

Now that the application is added, note the _Client ID_ and _Client Secret_.

![IDCS-appcreate6](./images/IDCS-appcreate6.png)

Click _Close_.

Click on Configurations tab under Client Information section click on add scope and select the _application name_ from the dropdown. Note the scope value.

![IDCS-appcreate7](./images/IDCS-appcreate7.png)
![IDCS-appcreate8](./images/IDCS-appcreate8.png)

Click _Activate_ and click _Ok_ in the dialog.

Note the _IDCS URL_, this is the URL you see in your browser URL bar, copy the IDCS url ( For example: https://idcs-xxxxxxxxxxx.identity.oraclecloud.com/ ), client-id, client-secret and scope these values are provided to the Basicauth function.

## Review and customize the function

Review the following files in the current folder:

> - [pom.xml](./pom.xml) specifies all the dependencies for your function
> - [func.yaml](./func.yaml) that contains metadata about your function and declares properties
> - [src/main/java/com/example/fn/BasicAuth.java](./src/main/java/com/example/fn/BasicAuth.java) which contains the Java code

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [`pom.xml`](./pom.xml) specifies all the dependencies for your function
- [`func.yaml`](./func.yaml) that contains metadata about your function and declares properties
- [`src/main/java/com/example/fn/BasicAuth.java`](./src/main/java/com/example/fn/BasicAuth.java) which contains the Java code
```

> The name of your function _basicauth_ is specified in [func.yaml](./func.yaml).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name of your function `basicauth` is specified in [`func.yaml`](./func.yaml).
```

set the following config variables to the values noted while configuring IDCS. The IDCS URL is the token endpoint that returns the access token after validating credentials

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

Author: This is not java, but the configuration variables in the function.

Reviewer: Sure, but it probably could be formatting used Java syntax highlighting. This is a formatting improvement, so the language specified does not need to be accurate.

CLIENT_ID = "xxxxxxxxxxx";
CLIENT_SECRET = "xxxxxxxxx";
IDCS_URL = "https://idcs-xxxxxxxx.identity.oraclecloud.com/oauth2/v1/token";

//INFORMATION ABOUT THE TARGET APPLICATION
SCOPE_AUD = "display-httprequest-infodisplay-httprequest-info";
```

For the unit test to run, set the following variables in src/test/java/com/example/fn/BasicAuthTest.java

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```java
```

    private static final String TEST_IDCS_URL = "https://idcs-xxxxxxxx.identity.oraclecloud.com/oauth2/v1/token";
    private static final String TEST_CLIENT_ID = "xxxxxxxxxxx";
    private static final String TEST_CLIENT_SECRET = "xxxxxxxxxxx";
    private static final String TEST_SCOPE_AUD = "display-httprequest-infodisplay-httprequest-info";
    private static final String TEST_TOKEN = "xxxxxxxxxxx";
```

## Deploy the basicauth function

> In Cloud Shell, run the _fn deploy_ command to build the function and its dependencies as a Docker image,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Cloud Shell, run `fn deploy` to build the function and its dependencies as a container image,
```

push the image to OCIR, and deploy the function to Oracle Functions in your application.

![user input icon](./images/userinput.png)

> 
> ```
> fn -v deploy --app <app-name>
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```shell
fn -v deploy --app <app-name>
```

```

## Invoke the basicauth function in cloud shell

> In Cloud Shell, run _fn invoke_ command to invoke the deployed function, returns active status as true if the token is valid or else returns false.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Cloud Shell, run `fn invoke` to invoke the deployed function. It should return an active status of true if the token is valid or otherwise returns false.
```

![user input icon](./images/userinput.png)

> ```
> echo -n '{"type":"TOKEN", "token":"Basic aW5jaGFyYS5zaGFtYW5uYUBvcmFj....."}' | fn invoke <app-name> <func-name>
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```shell
echo -n '{"type":"TOKEN", "token":"Basic aW5jaGFyYS5zaGFtYW5uYUBvcmFj....."}' | fn invoke <app-name> <func-name>
```
```

![APIGW create](./images/apigw-create.png)

Once created, click on your gateway. Under _Resources_, select _Deployments_ and click _Create Deployment_.

- Provide a name, a path prefix ("/basicauth" for example).
- Under _API Request Policies_ Add Authentication
  - Authentication Type: _Custom_
  - Choose the application and the basicauth function
  - For "Authentication token", select _Header_
  - For the "Header Name", enter "Autorization"

Click _Save Changes_ when you are finished
![APIGW deployment create](./images/apigw-deployment-create.png)

Click _Next_. Provide a name to the route ("/hello" for example), select methods eg: "GET", select _HTTP-URL_ for your back-end.

![APIGW deployment create](./images/apigw-deployment-create-route.png)

Click _Next_ and finally, click _Save Changes_.

Note the endpoint of your API Gateway deployment.

![APIGW deployment endpoint](./images/apigw-deployment-endpoint.png)

## Invoke the Deployment endpoint

The function validates if the user information is valid.

![user input icon](./images/userinput.png)

> Use the curl command to make the HTTP request
> 
> ```
>  curl -i -u "<username>:<password>" https://d6xxxxxxxxk64.apigateway.us-ashburn-1.oci.customer-oci.com/basicauth/hello
> ```
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use `curl` to make the HTTP request

```shell
curl -i -u "<username>:<password>" https://d6xxxxxxxxk64.apigateway.us-ashburn-1.oci.customer-oci.com/basicauth/hello
```

```
